.TH XRANDR-PROFILE 1 "June 2026" "xrandr-profile VERSION" "General Commands Manual"
.SH NAME
xrandr-profile \- save and restore XRandR display profiles
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xrandr-profile
.RB [ \-\-save
.IR profile ]
.RB [ \-\-load
.IR profile ]
.RB [ \-\-delete
.IR profile ]
.RB [ \-\-list ]
.RB [ \-\-list-all ]
.RB [ \-\-list-current ]
.RB [ \-\-watch ]
.RB [ \-\-fallback
.IR mode ]
.RB [ \-\-force ]
.RB [ \-\-verbose ]
.RB [ \-\-dry\-run ]
.RB [ \-\-names ]
.RB [ \-\-version ]
.RB [ \-\-help ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B xrandr-profile
is a lightweight XRandR profile manager that saves and restores monitor layouts
based on monitor identity (EDID) rather than just output names, allowing layouts
to be restored even when monitors appear under different output names.

Profiles store monitor configuration properties including position,
resolution, refresh rate, rotation, reflection, panning, and scaling
transform.

.PP
When run without arguments,
.B xrandr-profile
automatically applies the most recently used profile matching the current
monitor configuration, if available. It can apply the matching profile
automatically when the monitor configuration changes.

.PP
.B xrandr-profile
supports global and per-profile pre- and post-application hooks. If
the profile to be applied matches the live one exactly, no changes are made and no
hooks are executed. Pass
.B \-\-force
to re-apply regardless. If no profile matches the current monitor layout, fallback
modes can be selected to arrange the monitors automatically.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.BI \-\-save " profile"
Save the current display configuration as
.IR profile .

.TP
.BI \-\-load " profile"
Load the specified
.IR profile .

.TP
.BI \-\-delete " profile"
Delete the specified
.IR profile .

.TP
.B \-\-list
List saved profiles matching the current monitor configuration.

.TP
.B \-\-list-all
List all saved profiles.

.TP
.B \-\-list-current
Print the current active display configuration.

.TP
.B \-\-watch
Automatically applies the matching profile when monitors are connected or disconnected.

.TP
.BI \-\-fallback " mode"
When no saved profile matches the connected monitors, arrange them
automatically.
.I mode
is one of
.BR horizontal ","
.BR vertical ","
.BR clone " or"
.BR off " (default)."

.TP
.B \-\-force
Re-apply the matching profile even when the current layout already matches it.

.TP
.B \-\-verbose
Log what is being done to standard error.

.TP
.B \-\-dry\-run
Show what would change without applying anything. Implies
.BR \-\-verbose .

.TP
.B \-\-names
Print only the name of the profiles.

.TP
.B \-\-version
Print version information and exit.

.TP
.B \-\-help
Display usage information and exit.

.SH HOOKS
.B xrandr-profile
supports running custom executable files before and after a profile is applied.
Hooks are searched for in the XDG configuration directory (typically
.IR ~/.config/xrandr-profile/hooks/ ).

Hooks must be regular executable files. Files starting with a dot (.) are ignored. 
If multiple hooks exist in a directory, they are executed sequentially in alphabetical order.

.SS Execution Order
When applying a profile, hooks are executed in the following order:
.IP 1. 3
Global pre-hooks:
.IR hooks/pre/
.IP 2. 3
Profile-specific pre-hooks:
.IR hooks/<profile>/pre/
.IP 3. 3
The XRandR layout is applied.
.IP 4. 3
Global post-hooks:
.IR hooks/post/
.IP 5. 3
Profile-specific post-hooks:
.IR hooks/<profile>/post/

.SS Environment Variables
The following environment variables are exported to the hooks during execution:
.TP
.B XRANDR_PROFILE
The name of the profile currently being applied.
.TP
.B XRANDR_HOOK
The phase of the execution. Will be either
.B pre
or
.BR post .

.PP
The synthesized layout produced by
.B \-\-fallback
runs hooks under the profile name
.BR fallback ,
so per-profile hooks for it live in
.IR hooks/fallback/pre/ " and " hooks/fallback/post/ .

.SH FILES

.TP
.I $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/xrandr-profile/profiles
File where profiles are stored.

.TP
.I $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/xrandr-profile/hooks/
Base directory for hook scripts.

.SH SIGNALS
The following apply only while running with
.BR \-\-watch .
.TP
.B SIGHUP
Force an immediate re-detection and re-apply. Useful after saving a new
profile with
.BR \-\-save .
.TP
.B SIGINT, SIGTERM
Exit cleanly.

.SH NOTES
.B \-\-watch
requires a running X session and should be started from within it, e.g. from
your window manager's autostart.

.SH EXAMPLES

.TP
Save the current layout:
.B xrandr-profile --save work

.TP
Restore a saved layout:
.B xrandr-profile --load docked

.TP
Automatically restore the last matching profile:
.B xrandr-profile

.TP
Watch for monitor configuration changes and auto-apply, falling back to a left-to-right layout for unknown monitor sets:
.B xrandr-profile --watch --fallback=horizontal &

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xrandr (1),
.BR X (7),
.BR autorandr (1)

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Dimitris Gerasimou.

.SH LICENSE
GNU General Public License v3.
